Update cli templates to tutorial series (#13024)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/tutorials/cli-templates-create-item-template.md

---

> title: Create an item template for dotnet new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Create an item template for dotnet new - .NET Core CLI
```

description: Learn how to create an item template for the dotnet new command. Item templates can contain any number of files.

> author: thraka

Reviewer: add ms.author as well, otherwise it's me by default 😄

Author: hahaha ok.

ms.date: 06/25/2019
ms.topic: tutorial
---

# Tutorial: Create an item template

With .NET Core, you can create and deploy templates that generate projects, files, even resources. This tutorial is part one of a series that teaches you how to create, install, and uninstall, templates for use with the `dotnet new` command.

> In this part of the series you'll learn how to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this part of the series, you'll learn how to:
```

> [!div class="checklist"]
> * Create a class for an item template
> * Create the template config folder and file
> * Install a template from a file path
> * Test an item template
> * Uninstall an item template

## Prerequisites

> * Install the [.NET Core 2.2 SDK](https://www.microsoft.com/net/core) or later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [.NET Core 2.2 SDK](https://www.microsoft.com/net/core) or later versions.
```

> * Create the "working folder" structure used by this tutorial.

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be part of the steps instead of a prereq?

  Create a new working folder to contain your work during this tutorial. This tutorial will refer to that folder as the _working_ folder. This folder should have a single subfolder named _templates_.

  ```console
  working
  └───templates
  ```

> * Additionally, create a temporary folder where you can test your templates. This tutorial will refer to that folder as the _test_ folder. This folder **shouldn't** be under the _working_ folder. As an example, you can create the _test_ folder as a sibling of the _working_ folder.

Reviewer: shouldn't or can't? Should we explain why?

  ```console
  parent_folder
  ├───test
  └───working
      └───templates
  ```

> * Read the reference article [Custom templates for dotnet new](../tools/custom-templates.md).

Reviewer: Is that really required for someone to complete this tutorial? Can this be a link at the end for more resources (or whatever is called that section on the tutorial template)?

  The reference article explains the basics about templates and how they're put together. Some of this information will be reiterated here.

> * Open a terminal and navigate to the _working\templates\\_ folder.

Reviewer: this is already your instruction on line 53. I don't think you need to repeat that.

## Create an item template

> An item template is a specific type of template that produces one or more files. These types of templates are useful when you want to generate something like a config, code, or solution file. In this example, you'll create a class that adds an extension method to the string type.

Reviewer: produces one or more files when?

```csharp
using System;

namespace System
{
    public static class StringExtensions
    {
        public static string Reverse(this string value)
        {
            var tempArray = value.ToCharArray();
            Array.Reverse(tempArray);
            return new string(tempArray);
        }
    }
}
```

Now that you have the content of the template created, you need to create the template config at the root folder of the template.

## Create the template config

Templates are recognized in .NET Core by a special folder and config file that exist at the root of your template. In this tutorial, your template folder is located at _working\templates\extensions\\_.

When you create a template, all files and folders in the template folder are included as part of the template except for the special config folder. This config folder is named _.template.config_.

First, create a new subfolder named _.template.config_, enter it. Then, create a new file named _template.json_. Your folder structure should look like this:

```console
working
└───templates
    └───extensions
        └───.template.config
                template.json
```

> Open the _template.json_ with your favorite text editor and paste in the following json code and save it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open the _template.json_ with your favorite text editor and paste in the following JSON code and save it:
```

```json
{
  "$schema": "http://json.schemastore.org/template",
  "author": "Me",
  "classifications": [ "Common", "Code" ],
  "identity": "ExampleTemplate.StringExtensions",
  "name": "Example templates: string extensions",
  "shortName": "stringext",
  "tags": {
    "language": "C#",
    "type": "item"
  }
}
```

> This config file contains all of the settings for your template. You can see the basic settings such as `name` and `shortName` but also there's a `tags/type` value that is set to `item`. This categorizes your template as an item template. There's no restriction on the type of template you create. The `item` and `project` values are common names that .NET Core recommends so that users can easily filter the type of template they're searching for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This config file contains all the settings for your template. You can see the basic settings, such as `name` and `shortName`, but there's also a `tags/type` value that is set to `item`. This categorizes your template as an item template. There's no restriction on the type of template you create. The `item` and `project` values are common names that .NET Core recommends so that users can easily filter the type of template they're searching for.
```

> The `classifications` item represents the **tags** column you see when you run `dotnet new` and get a list of templates. Users can also search based on classification tags. Don't confuse the `tags` property in the json file with the `classifications` tags list. They're two different things unfortunately named similarly. The full schema for the *template.json* file is found at the [JSON Schema Store](http://json.schemastore.org/template). For more information about the *template.json* file, see the [dotnet templating wiki](https://github.com/dotnet/templating/wiki).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `classifications` item represents the **tags** column you see when you run `dotnet new` and get a list of templates. Users can also search based on classification tags. Don't confuse the `tags` property in the \*.json file with the `classifications` tags list. They're two different things unfortunately named similarly. The full schema for the *template.json* file is found at the [JSON Schema Store](http://json.schemastore.org/template). For more information about the *template.json* file, see the [dotnet templating wiki](https://github.com/dotnet/templating/wiki).
```

> Now that you have a valid _.template.config/template.json_ file, your template is ready to be installed. Open your terminal and from the _extensions_ folder, run `dotnet new -i .\` to install the template located at the current folder. If you're using a Linux or MacOS operating system, use a forward slash: `dotnet new -i ./` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have a valid _.template.config/template.json_ file, your template is ready to be installed. Open your terminal and from the _extensions_ folder, run the following command to install the template located at the current folder:

- **On Windows**: `dotnet new -i .\`
- **On Linux or macOS**: `dotnet new -i ./` 
```
